Improve OSPool AP installation doc (#147)
osg-htc/docs: docs/submit/install-ospool-ap.md

Installing an Open Science Pool Access Point
============================================

This document explains how to add a path for user jobs to flow from your local site out to the Open Science Pool (OSPool),
which in most cases means that the jobs will have far more capacity available to run on than locally.
This is useful if:

- your local batch system frequently has many jobs waiting to run for a long time
- you do not have a local batch system

> - you want to provide a local entry point for OSPool-bound jobs

Reviewer: I know you didn't write it but what does this mean? @rynge maybe?

Reviewer 2: Yeah that is poorly written. I think the whole introduction needs a rework. Let's do that separately as well.

Note that if you do not have a local batch system, consider having your users use
[OSG Connect](https://portal.osg-htc.org/documentation), which will require less
infrastructure work at your site.

!!!note
    Flocking to OSPool resources requires some modification to user workflows.
    After installation, see the [usage](#usage) section for instructions on what your users will need to do.

Background
----------
Every batch computing system has one or more entry points that users log on to and use to hand over their computing work
to the batch system for completion.
For the HTCondor batch system, we say that users log on to an Access Point (AP)
(also known as a submit node or submit host)
to submit their jobs to HTCondor, where the jobs wait ("are queued") until computing capacity is available to run them.
In a purely local HTCondor system, there are one to a few Access Points and many computing resources.

> An HTCondor Access Point can also be configured to forward excess jobs to the Open Science Pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An HTCondor Access Point can also be configured to forward excess jobs to the OSPool.
```

You went through the trouble of defining it in the first sentence so we may as well use it

This process is called [flocking](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/grid-computing/connecting-pools-with-flocking.html).
If you already have an HTCondor pool, we recommend that you install this software
on top of one of your existing HTCondor Access Points.
This approach allows a user to submit locally and have their jobs run locally or,
if the user chooses and if local capacity is unavailable, have their jobs automatically flock to the OSPool.

> If you do not have an HTCondor batch system, following these instructions will install the HTCondor submit service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not have an HTCondor batch system, following these instructions will install the HTCondor Access Point
```

Probably this instead?

Author: That's a grey area. I think of the AP as the entire machine (or VM or container); this sentence refers to installing the condor daemons instead.

Reviewer: I think installing an HTCondor AP is where we want to go brand-wise: the HTCSS team will be delivering on shipping a `condor-ap` package sometime in the next month or so (same with the EP product)

Author: how about "HTCondor Access Point software" ?

Reviewer: Works for me

Author: Done. I used the abbreviation because I defined it in the previous paragraph.

Be aware that hosting an access point comes with responsibilities, both for the administrators as
well as end users of the system. The polices can be found in the [Acceptable Usage Policy document](ap-ospool-aup.md).

### Register your Access Point in OSG Topology

> To be part of the OSPool, your AP must be registered in the OSG Topology system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make use of OSPool capacity, your AP must be registered in the OSG Topology system.
```

In the NWO, the pool is a completely separate entity with its own ownership/policy. As pool owners, we are then allowed to decree that APs must do this and that to make use of our pool's capacity

You will need information like the hostname, and the administrative and security contacts.
Follow the [general registration instructions](../common/registration.md#new-resources).
For historical reasons, the service type is `Submit Node`. We also request that you tag
the resources with `OSPool`. An example of a registration is
[the osg-vo.isi.edu entry](https://github.com/opensciencegrid/topology/blob/7a71dd4731bb5259f5d9d4004b2df1ddb2bd22ce/topology/University%20of%20Southern%20California/Information%20Sciences%20Institute/ISI.yaml#L32-L57)

### Register with COManage 
The adminstrative contact from the the Topology entry needs to register with COManage. 
Instructions can be found [here](https://osg-htc.org/technology/policy/comanage-instructions-user/)

### Obtain an Authentication Token
The new Access Point will need an authentication token to authenticate to the OSPool Central Manager.
Once your Access Point is registered in OSG Topology and you are registered with COManage,
you can obtain a token from the [OSG Token Registration page](https://os-registry.opensciencegrid.org/).

You will need a host with Docker to run the software used for retrieving the token.

> Please use your COManage registered and approved identity to log into the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use your COManage registered and approved identity to log into the
```

required packages. Example on a RHEL 9 host:

```console
# yum install https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-9.noarch.rpm
# yum install https://repo.opensciencegrid.org/osg/23/osg-23-el9-release-latest.rpm
# yum install osg-flock
```

### Upgrading from OSG 3.5 or earlier

The Access Point must be running a supported version of the OSG Software Stack;
the currently supported versions as of December 2023 are OSG 23 and OSG 3.6.
If you are running an earlier version, you should upgrade to the most recent version
of the OSG Software Stack that your operating system supports.
OSG 23 supports RHEL 8- and 9-compatible operating systems.
OSG 3.6 supports RHEL 7-, 8-, and 9-compatible operating systems.

See the instructions for upgrading to the appropriate series:

- [Upgrading to the OSG 23 series](https://osg-htc.org/docs/release/updating-to-osg-23/)
- [Upgrading to the OSG 3.6 series](https://osg-htc.org/docs/release/updating-to-osg-36/)

If you made local config changes, please verify that the files under
`/etc/condor/config.d` were renamed/disabled during the upgrade.

Note that in some older versions of the package, the Gratia config was kept in 

> `/etc/gratia/condor/ProbeConfig`. The new location is `/etc/gratia/condor-ap/ProbeConfig`.

Reviewer: We made this move in 3.6 so we should be able to drop this in the PR where you drop <= OSG 3.5 things

The Open Science Pool does not accept GSI authentication.
If your Access Point was configured with GSI authentication,

> you will need to switch to token authentication after upgrading, as described in this document.

Reviewer: We drop GSI support in OSG 3.6 so this is probably another thing we can drop

are particularly relevant.

### Specifying a project

> OSPool resources will only run jobs that have a registered *project* associated with them.

Reviewer: Capacity?

Author: "Capacity" is not a thing that can run jobs -- capacity is more like a slice of time of some resources. I think EP would be the best term here.

Users must follow the
[instructions for starting a project in OSG-Connect](https://portal.osg-htc.org/documentation/overview/account_setup/starting-project/)
to register a project.

A project is associated with a job by adding a `+ProjectName` line to the user's submit file.
For example:

```file
+ProjectName = "My_Project"
```

__The `+` and the double quotes are necessary__.

> Otherwise, the job will fail to submit or it will not run in the OSPool.

Reviewer: Huh, can't we address this in AP config, i.e. in the packaging?

Author: Sure, but this is what's implemented today.

Reviewer: Mmk, that's fine for now then. Could you add it to your todo list to create a ticket for updating the osg-flock config?

Author: I checked the osg-connect access points and we don't have an EXTENDED_SUBMIT_COMMAND for ProjectName, only JobDurationCategory; I'd rather not put something in osg-flock that we're not even doing ourselves...
